Hey everyone, welcome to this week's episode of Fish.
Before we get going, I just want to let you know that we have a very exciting guest on
this week, Andy unfortunately was away and is actually furious he was away because he
missed out on the absolute tornado of comedy that is Reese Darby.
You probably know Reese for his roles as Murray the manager on Flight of the Concords or as
Nigel Billingsley from the Jumanji movies or perhaps you listen to his absolutely brilliant
podcast about the mysteries of the universe called the cryptid factor which he hosts with
his buddies Buttons and a doofus called Dan.
But what you may not have seen if you live in the UK is Reese playing his greatest role
yet, Steed Bonnet, Gentleman Pirate in the sitcom Our Flag Means Death.
This is such a great series, it came out last year on HBO Max but it's only just come to
the UK on BBC2 and it's all about the real life story of Steed Bonnet who decided to give
up his entire life and become a Gentleman Pirate of the Seas.
He befriends Blackbeard who's played by the absolute genius comedy director Tycho Waititi
and you can watch it now in the UK on BBC2 every Wednesday at 10pm or if you're impatient
like me just head straight to BBC iPlayer and you can watch the entire series in one bingy
go.
Anyway, it was so great having Reese back on the show you can find the previous episode
in the Fish Archives if you want to hear his first time here with us and he wasn't on
that show either poor guy can't get a break but we hope you enjoy it and then make sure
to watch Our Flag Means Death immediately afterwards.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast this
week coming to you from four mysterious locations around the globe.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with James Harkin, Anna Tyshinski and joining
us once again it is the return of our very special guest Reese Darby and once again we
have gathered around the microphones with our four favourite facts from the last seven
days and in no particular order here we go.
Starting with fact number one and that is Reese.
My fact is that pirate Steed Bonnet invented the idea of walking the plank.
That's a pretty big invention, I would say in the world of pirating.
I don't use it in my day to day life, it's pretty niche isn't it?
It's putting together two things that already exist, walking and planks, it doesn't come
up with anything new there, has he?
I know but if you're even a child and you dress up as a pirate one of the first things
you learn in your entire life is that they walk the plank, I mean he is, what a legacy.
That's right.
Is it true though?
Let's put it this way, it's more of a myth really that he came up with it.
That's fine, that's what we deal in.
It's a Dan fact you know, you know the show.
So well he might have done, some people say that he did, I actually believe he did because
even though it's out there as a myth, I believe knowing Steed as I do, playing the role of
Steed for two seasons now, that he would have come up with it in reality because the whole
idea behind walking the plank is they blindfold the person and they make them walk it and
so then they get away with not being accused of murder because that person has killed themselves.
The captain has said, alright walk along that plank will you, all the best and the guy's
like, hey what's happening, hey walk along here, you can imagine it as I'm describing
it here.
I've got to blindfold on, where's this plank going you know and then that's the shark.
So he wouldn't want to stab someone or shoot someone, no he wants to do it, he wants to
be slightly away from the action right and say, you did it yourself.
Absolutely very uncomfortable with the idea of killing someone.
Why are you hitting yourself, why are you punching yourself, why are you letting yourself
get eaten by sharks.
Exactly that's it.
Is that getting you into heaven?
I was uncomfortable with killing people so I just let them kill themselves.
He's still, he's walking a fine line isn't he already.
He's walking a fine plank for sure but I think that's the point, it's a moral issue and so
he can think to himself, oh I didn't kill him, he killed himself, he walked off that
plank that I designed and it's quite a ingenious idea really to think that especially back
in those days you could make someone kill themselves without you having to actually
get your hands dirty.
Which was we should say like the golden age of piracy, 1718 was it, he died?
Yes.
I think.
So 1700, 17 to 1730 was the golden age, he was right in the middle of it.
Wasn't he very short lived really as a pirate, for a pirate who is quite famous, it was quite
a brief career wasn't it?
Two years.
I live with the man, I think it was like a year and a half.
I think we should just quickly praisey this guy in his entirety, this was someone who was
a really well to do character, he was living very rich, he had a wife, he had some kids
and then he just decided as part of ultimately what was I guess a midlife crisis or he was
dealing with trauma of a quite difficult childhood, just left his family, bought a ship and just
said I'm now a pirate, got a crew, named the ship The Revenge and just started sailing
and he paid his staff, you know he paid the pirates, he was as you say a gentleman pirate
with zero abilities.
Didn't he not tell the pirates that they were going to be pirates?
I read somewhere that he kind of brought them on, he got all of these guys to be his staff
and then only when they were at sea he said oh by the way you're pirates, this isn't just
a fun cruise, this is a.
That sounds like him as well, knowing him being in his shoes, absolutely yeah, he definitely,
he bought the ship, it was already called The Revenge I believe and he liked the name
of it and it was actually quite a common name for ships back then and then yeah he installed,
this is the really fun stuff, he installed a library on the boat so he built a library
because he loved his books, he wanted to leave home and leave his wife and life but he didn't
want to leave his books, something you might do Dan, so he brought his entire collection
of his books and put them on the ship.
I reckon Dan, I reckon you would go being a pirate with your books of course but also
probably your Ben Elton collection.
Absolutely, well you're signed, everything signed you've got in your house would come
with you.
You'd need memorabilia to sort of wow blackbeard with you know, no actually Ben Elton did
I think actually hold this particular bit of tissue, really, wow, I was actually going
to say it was pretty hard on his wife with the book stealing, not only is she lost her
husband but he's nicked all the bloody books but actually in your case Dan it would be
quite a relief probably for Fenella, yeah it'd be like the ultimate Marie Kundo or whatever
that book was called, it's like yeah, you know, step four, make your husband a pirate,
lose all.
Thank God.
Yeah and so in the series as well there's the relationship, the fact that he in real
life meets blackbeard, the most famous of all the pirates and what's crazy as well is
I assume blackbeard must have existed for a long time but he had a two-year run as well,
that was it, blackbeard's pirating years were two years.
It's amazing.
It was pretty fast and loose as a pirate, didn't you, it probably wasn't the safest
line of work to go into for being honest.
No.
They were like the Liz Truss of pirates, weren't they, those guys, that's the most fluttering
comparison Liz Truss has ever got but yeah, blackbeard and him had quite a weird relationship
but it's kind of the relationship to a needy loser and the real cool guy of the open seas
because Steve wasn't that good at pirating especially at first, was he?
No.
You know there's the reality through the knowledge we have from various accounts and
history and then there's obviously the fictional version which my show is so without getting
too confused about which is real and which isn't because the real reports are sketchy
at best as well but when you look at it, it kind of makes sense that something happened
between the two of them, even if it was just a friendship, blackbeard was fascinated by
this guy because he looked glorious in his outfits, he had these little winker picker
shoes and glorious coats and various things like that, he was a fancy man and blackbeard
must have gone what the hell are you doing in this job because you know they were all
desperate, they didn't want to become pirates, that was like the only life they had to go
into because of their circumstance and so here's this guy who's like I want to be part
of this too and he's absolutely not supposed to be there and he was wounded and I think
instead of just letting him like killing him or getting rid of him, I think there was a
massive fascination, I think maybe if you look at blackbeard wanting to see the other
side of how the other side lives, like probably a lot of people did back in those days, you're
either ridiculously poor and haven't got anything going on or you're the aristocracy and never
the twain shall meet and so when they do, I think that's when you've got this really
interesting like oh how can I become you or how can I learn from you or how can I steal
your ideas to make me better.
So you was like the Louis Theroux of the pirating world, spending a few weeks observing, getting
all the accessories.
Yeah, exactly.
Perhaps because he could have just killed him, he could have just got rid of him and
this guy back in history was not, he's not as portrayed as capable as I am in the show,
you know.
And that's saying something.
But I reckon this is a really interesting way of doing history right because we don't
have much information about Steve Bonnet, we have little bits here and there, but Rhys,
you've lived as him for two years in the show pretty much and I reckon you've got a really
good insight into what he might have been thinking and what he might have done and stuff.
Yeah.
Why the hell he did it?
That's always the great mystery, isn't it?
It's always portrayed as this huge midlife crisis, which makes sense, it's the fantasy
that every eight-year-old has that we grow out of by the time we're twelve.
That's not midlife, is it?
Eight years old?
It's like when you have a midlife crisis, you revert back to those tragic fantasies
you had as a child that are unrealistic and it was portrayed in, you know, the famous
book of pirates, which is where we get basically all of our pirate knowledge by a mysterious
person called Captain Charles Johnson, who was written a few years later.
And his portrayal, which is often what is repeated, is that he was trying to bear the
awful situation of having a nagging wife, but yeah, Rhys, you've been him, why did he
do it?
I really hope that you, James and Anna, are subtly trying to get Rhys to sort of channel
Steve and he comes through now and Rhys is no longer here.
We're getting this dandy.
Steve is just on the show.
Look, I definitely think there was a midlife crisis situation going on if you look back
at the accounts, but also he had this life that he didn't necessarily want.
He was born into aristocracy and at that time piracy had just kicked in and it was this
ridiculous, adventurous, out at sea life that was pretty much the opposite of what
he's doing.
And he's never even been to sea, by the way, this guy.
So he's imagining, oh, wow, what would that be like?
And of course, anyone who's really intensely into their book reading has a great imagination.
And I think he just one day went, look, I've actually got the means to, to change this.
And he probably had one massive fight with the wife that he obviously wasn't really getting
on with and went, right, that's it.
I'm out.
And in the middle of the night, you know, he, he sorted this out and just took off on
a whim.
And I think that, you know, he probably thought that he had the means to, to get away with
it because he was a chiefly person.
He was someone who was sort of high up there.
And so he probably didn't even imagine he was going to get into trouble.
It certainly seemed like he didn't.
It's confidence, blind confidence.
I once walked a plank in a virtual reality video game and this is why I was thinking
about how these guys were blindfolded.
So we weren't blindfolded when we did this, but you're walking the plank on the top of
a massive building.
And then the idea is you got to the end and then you jumped off and then you were in virtual
reality and you thought you were dying.
And then you kept falling, falling, falling, and then you hit the floor and you absolutely
shit yourself because you thought you were dead, but actually you're in virtual reality.
But what I thought was it was more scary because I could see what was happening, whereas these
guys were blindfolded.
So it's the idea that they wouldn't know when they're getting to the end of the plank.
They'll just keep walking and that's it.
Yes.
Well, let's have a chat about that.
I mean, I think why do they need to be blindfolded for a start?
Because they know they're out at sea.
They're on a boat.
All right.
Step up.
Step up onto the edge here.
Oh, this is...
Well, I can feel that this is the edge of the boat.
No, no, no.
It's not.
No.
You're going into one of the rooms.
We're going to have a little party.
No, no.
I can feel the wind in my face here.
No, no, no.
It's fine.
Walk.
Just keep walking.
All right.
Yes.
Oh, well, this is going out into the sea, isn't it?
No, no.
No, this is a little...
It's actually a bridge towards the bar.
I've got a cocktail here waiting for you, Larry.
Okay.
It was very windy.
Yes.
Well, we're all blowing.
Blow.
Oh, that doesn't...
It feels...
It feels like normal wind.
Not you.
You know what?
Your wind's like Larry.
Ah, cheeky bugger.
Just keep walking down there, mate.
And I know I've really got into that, but, you know, I think...
I've forgotten what we were asking.
But I actually think that's true because it means you couldn't have, like, surprise parties
on a boat, could you?
Because every time you put a blindfold on and you're walked into a room and they say
it's a party...
Yeah.
I think that's a good point we've got to.
In history, there's been no surprise parties on pirate ships for that reason.
Happy birthday!
Whoa!
It's starting to real quick.
It actually doesn't make any sense that they would be able to walk a plank while out in
the rough seas blindfolded and shaking with nerves.
Oh, yes.
I mean, you fall off.
You don't get to the end of that plank, do you?
No.
Such a good point.
You're falling off straight away.
Also, is this where we got the diving board from?
Yeah.
Ah, yes.
I was just thinking...
Imagine the cockiness of someone that you've sentenced to death who walks blindfolded to
the end of the plank, jumps off and does a triple backwards up a salt.
That's amazing.
That's a legend.
What a death!
Yeah.
Okay, it is time for fact number two and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that goats like it when you smile at them, but only if you
approach them from the right-hand side.
How can that possibly be true?
Why can it be true?
The findings of a study in 2018 at the Buttercup Sanctuary for Goats in Kent and what they
did was they put photos of humans, men and women, black and white, and they put one on
the left and one on the right, and one of them was smiling and one of them wasn't, and
the goats always went to the smiling one, but only when it was on the right-hand side.
When it was on the left-hand side, they couldn't give a shit.
They would just randomly go to one or the other, but when it was on the right-hand side,
they always went to it, and two things here, one, not many animals care whether humans
are smiling or not.
We know that dogs do.
We know that horses do.
That's because they're domesticated animals, and this is one of the first other animals
that we found that actually cares if humans smile, and the other thing is that perhaps
why are they only bothered about the right-hand side?
Well, it could be the way that their brain processes things.
So maybe they're processing emotions on one side of the brain or visual things on one
side of the brain.
We're not really sure.
Why do they use black and white photo?
Can you not fork out in the budget for a colour photography?
Do they see colour?
That's a great question.
You know goats almost as well as, you know, Steve Bonnet, do you think they see colour?
I would like to think they do, especially my ones.
When I turn up to feed them, I always come in from the left, and they're smiling.
I'm smiling, but they can't.
You always make sure to smile?
That's part of it.
I'm just remenining that I must be smiling because I'm happy to see that.
I don't see them a hell of a lot because they're in New Zealand, but I spend time with them
when I'm there, of course.
They are emotionally intelligent.
I hadn't realised that they were to this extent, so they did a study where researchers
recorded goats making certain noises, noises when they were happy and noises when they
were sad.
So this did involve the researchers making the goats happy and sad, so they'd make them
happy by sort of giving them food, and then they'd make them sad, and this is sort of
like really minimal level of sadness.
They'd isolate them from their herd for five minutes, or they'd get a goat to watch another
goat eat when that goat didn't have much food.
But I know goats, and that is very sad for them.
That's tragic.
The two things they really care about are being together and eating.
Oh, really?
That's it.
Oh, yeah, that's it.
And to have fun, they climb, so they love to get on top of things, and they love running
around, but they much prefer to be doing all that sort of stuff to see it.
Right.
OK, well, maybe this was like torture for them, perhaps.
It would have been.
And also, Anna, I've been in a restaurant with you when one of us has got our food,
and yours hasn't quite arrived yet.
The look on your face.
I make some pretty weird noises.
I can't deny that.
OK, I make some weird goat-like, bleating sounds.
Anyway, the noises that goats make are pretty much indistinguishable to us when they're
happy and sad in those situations, except probably reason for your own goats you pick
up on it.
But if you play those sounds to their fellow goats, just audio recordings, their heart
rates will stay normal, and they'll be all chilled out when they hear the happy sounds.
But when they hear the almost identical sounding, anxious sounds, then their heart rates kind
of shoot up, so they're feeling this empathy on behalf of this other goat.
Wow.
Rhys, have you ever, this is a leaning into a myth here, but I'd just be curious, have
you ever dipped your feet into salt water and then let goats lick your feet?
No.
No?
OK.
I've already, but I have taken the goats for a walk down on the beach and been through
salt water.
Yeah, so, OK, next time you're back in New Zealand, give it a go, because I'd be curious
to hear whether or not this hurts.
This was a sort of myth that's been in books for a long time, and possibly it was tried
once or twice, who knows, where the ancient Romans were said to have used a thing called
tickle torture, and the idea was that you would get someone, you would soak their feet
in salt water, and then the salt would then be licked by a thirsty ghost.
Ghost?
Ghost.
I took a turn.
Oh my God.
I love salt, don't I?
Oh, no, I just checked my notes down and all this is actually about ghosts.
All this stuff I've been saying about goats.
It's ghosts like it if you smile at them.
Always approach a ghost from the right-hand side, yeah.
Now it's making sense.
So, apparently, if a goat licks your feet, because they have really rough tongues, that
the torture, and because they're so thirsty and the salt makes them thirstier, they keep
licking, and then they rip your feet off, and that would be a method of torture back
in the...
Rip your feet off.
Their tongues aren't made of teeth, are they?
No, sorry.
They would slowly, like a lollipop, lick their way through your feet.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I tend to not let their mouths too close to my body bits, because they have teeth and
everything, you know, and they're always wanting to nibble, and so they nibble on my clothes,
they pull my garments, and I certainly can't see myself getting my naked feet out and dangling
them in front of their faces with salt.
Do they then...
Another question about your goats.
I mean, do they urinate on themselves and each other, or themselves?
So first of all, they'll wheel over themselves to attract a female, and it looks kind of
cool.
Billy Goats shove their heads right between their legs, because they want to wee in their
bids, because I guess that gathers up the smell better, and they wheel over them, and
then they will go to the lady who can tell that he's up for a shag, but then he tests
her urine as well to make sure that she's eligible, to make sure that she's actually
on heat, and so she will squat down, and he'll put his head between her legs, and then she'll
wheel over him, and then they curl up the lips, the flame and response, which is where if
you see a goat expose its lip, like curl up its top lip, it's got all these receptors
in it.
Yeah, James is doing it right now, it's very attractive look actually, it's got receptors
in it that pick up whether the urine has the right hormones in it that says this woman is
ready to be fertilised by you, and so it's very wee based courting process, sexy stuff.
I know nothing of that, because I only have boy goats.
Oh really?
Yeah, well when you have both, you know, you're intimating, and if you've got females, then
you're into milking, so I've only got male castoffs, which you know, the boy goats are
only good for either meat or pets.
Yeah, oh wow, so they're never aroused your goats, they never need to move themselves.
They're never aroused, and I've never even seen them wee.
Oh they must?
No, never, never seen them wee, mind you, mine are pedigree, so I don't think they do.
Yeah good point, I've heard that about certain breeds, they just explode with urine at their
death, don't they?
Well sometimes I see them hiding, and I come to the pen and I think, oh what's going on,
you having a wee are you, and then I can hear, don't come in here, I'm in here, and that
kind of thing, and so I wonder, there's probably something happening there, and then they just
come through, oh hello dad, what's going on today?
Do they call you dad?
Yeah they call me dad.
I didn't see you coming dad, you came on the left hand side, did you?
Yeah yeah sorry, I was going to check on you guys, so you want to go for another walk down
to the beach?
Oh no, I'm fine, Alexander's just behind the pen there, don't go around there, he's
just doing something, don't worry about him.
Are you sure you've got goats, not a sort of pantomime act as it goes across trees?
But here's an interesting thing about goats, so you said like pedigree goats, you can get
them, you can get really good goats, especially for milking and stuff, and in order to get
those you might need a stud, so you might need a really good male goat who's going to
have sex with lots of females, but the thing is that they can only have so many, they can
only have sex so many times, right, there's only so many hours in the day that you can
do that, and so recently they've come up with a new way of, basically what they do is they
put some genes into a goat which changes its testicles, so they're effectively the testicles
of another goat, and so this goat which isn't the normal stud can have sex with a female
and the offspring will be the offspring of the original stud, even though the stud's
just at home having a coffee.
Oh my god, really?
Really?
It's like the Handmaid's Tale kind of, where you think you're shagging one person but you're
actually shagging the more fertile person, it's like it's actually a less dark version
of the Handmaid's Tale without the feminist dystopian undertones.
The Milkmaid's Tale.
Exactly.
I wonder if that's quite demoralising though for the goat who the person said your testes
aren't good enough, we're just going to shove these other blokes on you, who you've always
been intimidated by anyway.
I don't think they even know they're goats.
They're probably dreams.
Goats?
Of course they know they're goats.
Yeah.
Very good.
Because I've tried to take them out, you know, we've gone into town and my guys have
got, no, no, we can't, we're goats, we can't go in there, we're not going to, we won't
be allowed in there, Dad.
Can I, can I, can you take the blindfold off me?
No, just, just, you'll be fine, Alexander, we're just, we're going into town.
I can sense there's someone coming up to me on the left hand side, I can sense it.
He's asking me for ID, Dad, what do I do?
Dad, I don't have any ID, I'm a goat, I told him I was, I'm a goat.
Look, I'm sorry, he doesn't know he's a goat, if you could just let him, I do know I'm a
goat, Dad, I told you, and get the blindfold off me.
I saw a photo earlier today of it was a tree which looked like it was growing goats.
There was like an apple tree, there was like 30 goats.
They love climbing trees.
But they were just all sitting in this tree and I didn't think they had the dexterity
to do it.
I don't know, yeah, they're big on, yeah.
They do like climbing trees and they like climbing, but often if you see those photos,
some places will fake it, just fake it for tourists basically, they'll kind of tie the
goats into trees and then say, look, all these goats have climbed this tree and they're
all free will, because at the end of the day, they need the tourists to come and take the
photos, but the goats aren't going to do what they want.
Sometimes they'll climb and sometimes they won't, so they, yeah, they kind of fake it
sometimes.
That's the shocking reality of tourism in some of these places.
I'm afraid so.
The other thing is, there's a theory that goats used to be birds and that's why they're
in the trees a lot, because they are reverting back to their previous life.
Is there scientific papers written supporting this theory or is this just some bloke in
your local pub?
No, I'm just, I'm pulling it up now.
Okay.
Here it is.
Scientific theories.
Yeah, yeah.
Goats.
Yeah, goats used to be birds.
There it is.
Involved letters.
Absolutely incredible.
Well, that's two pages and it's signed at the bottom there.
Two pages.
That's your evidence.
They believe they're flying.
That's the closest thing they can get to going back to their old life as a bird by flying.
And then they'll end up in the trees and you'll, you'll often hear them twerking.
Twerking.
No, twerping.
You should see them twerk.
He's amazing.
What's the actual word that birds make?
Tweet.
Oh, tweeting.
I think.
Tweet.
facts, which isn't as amazing as that but is true, is that we've never talked about myotonic
goats and I think they always deserve a mention. The myotonic fainting goats. They're a breed
in Tennessee that basically have an anomaly in their genes where when they panic, if they're
approached from the left for instance or not smiling or there's a loud noise, something
like that, then they try to escape. But what this does is contracts their muscles so they
stiffen up completely and then just kind of fall over onto their side and it's quite comical
to see if you've never seen it. It's bizarre. I've seen videos of that. Yeah. It's very
interesting. Do we know why it happens Anna? Because it feels like it would die out quite
quickly. Well I think it was only dyed in as it were quite recently through breeding
so I don't think it would have any evolutionary purpose and you're right, in the wild they
probably wouldn't survive very long but they are now bred from the same batch that have
passed this. I think Steve Bonnet suffered from that same gene anomaly just sort of
stiffening up and fainting at the site of any sort of doubt. Oh yeah. Yeah. And he overcame
it. Did he? Well how did he overcome it? Well you know just really sort of you know getting
with a really tough pirate and learning how to proper be a pirate. You know I think goats
if you put those little feinty ones in with you know some real hardcore proper rustic goats
that probably learn the ways and would become more goaty. Yeah. Less feinty. Billy Goat Blackbeard
takes them under their wing. Yeah that's right. What you can also do is you can deprive them
of water which bizarrely cures this problem. There are other problems if you don't get
the water out now. So it's a very fine balance to strike but they're kind of useful now because
myotonia is also a thing in humans like sudden muscle seizures. Some people have that. The
jumping Frenchmen of Maine are they called or something like that. I remember. Really?
I didn't know. I don't know about them are they a group of myotonia. There was a group
of French immigrants in Maine I think and they had this kind of thing where as soon
as you shocked them they were just feinted. Oh really? Wow. Wow. Yeah. How long are they
stiff for? How long do they like does it just slowly wear off? Yeah I think so. It's the
goats. They just kind of wake up don't they the goats. It's like a feint. Yeah. Yeah I've
seen the videos. It's bizarre. I've seen the videos. It's bizarre. I imagine if people
did do that and it's a very bizarre trait isn't it? Yeah it would make the start of
the 100 meters not much good would it? As soon as the bang goes off everyone just fainted.
It would be a race to see who came round the quickest. Yeah. That's why the Goat Olympics
have never taken off. Yeah we call the best in the world the goats. What's going on?
Yeah. Okay it is time for fact number three and that is Anna. My fact this week is that
Tin Tin's hair originally lay flat on his head until it got blown upwards in an early
comic strip and it never came back down. Wow. And that's why he's got that famous stupid
quiff. Stupid, brilliant quiff. How dare you. Yeah. What are you talking about? Your stupid.
Okay. Actually Reese is sporting it's sort of half Tin Tinian quiff at the moment so
should be careful. But yeah and it doesn't it was not mentioned anywhere in the comic.
It's just the very first Tin Tin comic that was released. This is in January 1929 and
it was a tantin au pied de soviete. Tin Tin in the land of the Soviets and about sort
of 10 pages in in the version I was reading. He drops out of a tree, much like a goat and
falls into a convertible car sitting underneath it deliberately and drives the car away and
in the next plate you see his hair pushed up and then you follow the story through and
it just never drops again. So weird. Did they do it on purpose? Was this a subconscious thing?
We'll never know. We'll never know. Well I actually have the book here of course because
oh wow you do. Big Tin Tin fan and and I looked at this and yeah you're right we can we can
have a look here. I think it's as you say around page 10. Yes. Yeah this is an audio format.
Yeah you've you've all got imaginations at home. We want you to imagine Tin Tin climbing up a tree.
So climbing up a tree. See his his quiff hair is forward. Uh-huh. Yep. Okay he climbs up the tree
and then there he is for those at home that are listening to this. You guys can hear him here
jumping. Now he's in the car and it's flipped to the back and it's because of the wind of the car
and you can all hear that in that panel there. Yeah. But that's that's that's pretty amazing that
it happens midway through a comic. It's not like the start of a new comic. It's like it's like
Herge the the creator and the illustrator of Tin Tin did that in one panel and went oh that looks
good. I think so. Well I'll just leave that. That's what I think happened. Yeah yeah. And do you know
what's amazing about what you just showed us? There's a little something in that comic which is
what absolutely exploded Tin Tin into the masses of Europe and it and it was a very specific thing
that you might not have noticed as we were all just looking at these cartoons. Well did you notice
at home anyone? Write in if you spotted the moment. The four of us is what I'm talking about and
what it was is that this is 1929. This is the same year that Popeye was invented by the way.
And so this is and you know it's years before Superman and Batman. This is really old school
comic books. What they have in these drawings are speech bubbles and Europe did not have
speech bubbles at this point in their comics. They were over in America but they were a completely
new idea to certainly Belgium and let's say surrounding countries. I don't know about the
UK specifically. Luxembourg. Possibly Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The Netherlands. Let's go there.
Yeah and I read a great biography or rather I read a few pages from a great biography by Harry
Thompson about Tin Tin saying that basically his words in these speech bubbles were treated as if
they were carved on tablets of stone. They became quotes and they became something you would remember
as a result of these speech bubbles and that is why Tin Tin exploded. So sorry. Are we claiming,
I would say at the moment for me the invention of the speech bubble is up there with the invention
of the concept of walking a plank. I don't know if it's getting kind of... He didn't invent it.
Einstein. Exactly. He didn't even invent it and it's not... No. It didn't independently appear,
did it? It wasn't like oh wow how weird they've got these in America. Presumably they just read
a comic in America and thought well let's start doing that. Is that right? No but do you remember
when OK Go did their first video on Treadmills and you barely even heard the music? You were so
busy watching this innovative video. That's what it was. Could tell you what the song is.
Exactly. Oh the Treadmill song. The Treadmill song exactly. What a relatable for future generations.
Well you know in like 300 years everyone will be talking about you know how we all do those
Treadmill dances now. Yeah. You know how everyone does them. Well guess who did them first? Yeah.
It was exactly. Yeah. That book by the way, the Tintin in the Soviet countries or whatever it is,
I have that as well but if you go to the Tintin shop in London they'll only sell it to you under
the counter. No. Yeah so I went to, it was my tin anniversary and I thought I'd buy my wife some
tin tin stuff and she's Russian so I thought I'd buy the Soviet Tintin book and I went
and it wasn't anywhere and I didn't really know enough about Tintin that I knew it existed but
I assumed that it was maybe really rare and I said oh do you have this book and they went yeah well
we keep it under here now and since the Russian invasion of Ukraine they don't put it on display
anymore in that shop. That's so weird. That's incredible. So you feel like you were buying
comic book porn? Is it quite exciting? They gave me an unmarked paper bag. Yeah.
Do you know what's crazy? So 1929 is when Tintin debuts. By 1930 the comic is so massive that
Herge was invited to meet the Empress who was the ex-Empress I guess Zeta of Austria-Hungary
at the time and when he arrived he arrived by train and there was just huge crowds of people there
to meet not Herge specifically but Tintin because they hired an actor to be Tintin
who was an unknown kid who didn't have the right color hair and he was mobbed and not only did he
not have the right color hair he also couldn't quite keep the quiff up so Herge had to keep this
little like little tin of oily grease hair grease. I thought you were gonna go something about Mary
about it there Dan for a second. Oh Jesus. Tintin had to ejaculate every 30 minutes.
Like those poor goats? Like the goats. He had to have someone else's testicles implanted into him.
Exactly. Yeah. Blistering particles Tintin. But yeah so they came off this train and Tintin the
kid was mobbed and he was he was ripped away and Herge had to go and chase him and bring him back
but it was like one direction. Yeah right. If you remember them. Poor guy. Yeah. Yeah it was and in
fact you said you gave a famous Tintin quote there James blistering barnacles. Blistering barnacles.
Indeed. It's Captain Haddock right who says that. Yes. Yes frequently and this these are quite
interesting thing about translating Tintin into English because obviously it was originally
written in French. I was reading an interview with Leslie Lonsdale Cooper and she was one of the two
main translators of Tintin from French into English and she was doing it for 30 years but
she said one of the great challenges is fitting the words exactly into the speech bubbles because
you get exactly the same images but I don't you know when you hear a French announcement on a
tannoy and then you hear the English one and the French one always goes on about five times longer
so I don't know how she was compressing that but blistering barnacles was one of the things that
she came up with as a translation of actually Mise Sabor. I think it was in French which means a
thousand portholes. He's from Belgium though isn't he so yeah speak French. Speak French in
half of Belgium they do. He's supposedly based on a Frenchman wasn't he Tintin. Robert Sexy.
Yes. That's a good name. It's a great name isn't it. Robert Sexy. He was a French journalist
and apparently he looked a bit like Tintin. He went on adventures to the Soviet Union to the
Democratic Republic of Congo and to the US in the same order that Tintin does those books
but Herg always said Tintin c'est moi so he always claimed that Tintin was based on himself
but we think he might have been inspired by various different journalists. There was another
theory that Tintin and all the characters were based on the family members of Herg
and he denied it later in life. He said no no no it's nothing to do with them
but let me just quickly tell you about his family. There was his younger brother Paul
who had a round face and a quiff. There was his dad Alexis who was a clumsy man who had a twin
brother called Leon who lived nearby and the two of them would go for walks and they would wear
identical bowler hats and carry identical canes singing in unison as they did. His dog Snowy
who originally had the name Milo in French. Who does have the name Milo.
Who sorry rather who does have the name Milo in French shares that name with Herg's first
girlfriend. Yes but that's no yeah a lot of people a lot of people have suggested are you saying
something rude but Harry Thompson points out that at the time it was considered to be a great
crime if you were a young boy hanging out with the opposite sex certainly if you were depicting
that in comics and so the only way he could represent this person who was very fond of
was to put her as a dog in there otherwise he would have gotten a lot of trouble.
What what kind of weird excuse maker for the fact that Herg put pretty much zero women
in all of his comics were you reading oh we weren't allowed to include women in comic books
they had to be dogs they had to come in disguise he just didn't put any women characters in it
it's a bit of a bit of a hard to draw hard to draw women. That's not true what about
Bianca Kesterfuhrer the opera singer she's a huge character in this you're right she's
she is a heroine as well yeah that's true no you're right he had one he had Bianca that is true
and he did have the dog who maybe was based on his girlfriend but also weirdly the person James
mentioned sex there he had a travel companion called Milou as well so it might have been no way yeah
have you guys read what is apparently the best tint in and I haven't read it I'm ashamed ashamed
to say but tinted in Tibet people seem to say I'm guessing have you read Therese yes so that's
that's that's my favorite I mean I've let people know that I yeah I think I remember back it might
still be there on used to be on one of the social medias you put down your favorite book and I just
always put tinted in Tibet oh you've got such good taste that was his favorite you probably know
this that was Erzges favorite as well oh really yeah I didn't know that that's awesome um I just
because it's got a Sasquatch in it as well that's why oh yeah of course that's why it's your favorite
I thought you liked it for the great philosophical undertones and the exploration of kind of
Buddhist theology but it's it's the Sasquatch no I've never read it I just I just flicked through
and go straight to the Sasquatch and look at the pictures every time well it makes tinted the only
fictional character to have received the light of truth award from the Dalai Lama so this is like
the best honor that the Dalai Lama can bestow and it's to anyone who improves public understanding
of Tibet which is questionable if they did chug a Sasquatch into the storyline but yeah the Dalai
Lama gave tinted this amazing light of truth what's a Yeti you know yeah it's a Yeti yeah it's
perfectly correct it is you're right it and he's a good guy like he saves them so really I love it
when that happens yeah there's there's it's a good it's a great book does the Dalai Lama believe in
Yeti's do you know if anyone knows I would say so yeah so he has alluded to a belief unfortunately
the person he alluded that belief to was Brian Blessed so I'm not sure if we can trust Brian's
reporting but he when Brian was looking to climb to Mount Everest and obviously looking for Yeti's
along the way he had a what's it called an audience with the Dalai Lama and he met him they they
apparently did some boxing together Brian took a walk with them in the wood he saw him revive a
headless dead snake back to life and then they talked about Yeti's and he suggested that yeah
that they are real so yeah headless dead snake back to life what did he do just pick it up and wobble
it oh my god hey you're just wobbling that it's a knife it's a knife again he's doing it like the
thumb trick where you make it go hey look at that well here's the other thing too I'll say about the
hair the haircut on Tintin think about when you do find your your do you know when you you you're
young or whatever you may be in your 20s you're playing whether you're sorting something out
and you go right that's me quite often not everybody but a lot of people will will keep that
hairdo for their entire life and so that kind of fits in when you think about that because yeah
even when you lose your hair or it goes gray or whatever you know you go into your your later
stages of life you still got that same hairdo you had when you're in your early 20s that's a really
good point there was a thing wasn't there there was a scientific paper written about Tintin which was
when the first book was written he was supposed to be 14 and by the time the last book was written
he must have been about 60 because Herge was writing them for so long but he was 60 years old
never had to shave none of his hair's fallen out yeah he's still got those boyish features
and according to these scientists they reckon he suffered from hypopetuitorism due to repeated
blows to the head and some of the early books and does that stop you aging properly yeah it means
you never go through puberty he's got sort of an inverse to what most middle-aged men have where
he's bald all around the middle of his head and then he's got just lots of hair in the middle
and i'm looking at james has actually brought a tintin doll you have a tintin yes yeah to this
episode another visual feature that will be lost on our audience but it looks like a mohawk for me
he really does doesn't it yeah i know that he does have hair sorry when you turn it around
yeah it does yeah it's just from the front he looks bald i just say one one final thing is that
that he he really didn't like tintin at the end much the way that arthur kohn and doil got sick
of his creation of sherlock and he threw him off a cliff and and killed him off a waterfall
uh arguably it's just a wet cliff right only because i went there a few weeks ago did you
so the right light falls yeah all right would you say wet cliff is an accurate description
so he um he really didn't like tintin at the end and he was quite sick of him and so the final
tintin book that herje was working on up until the point of his death was a book called tintin
and alfart and all we have is the sort of rough sketches of it but the final pain that he got
up to the final bit of the story was having tintin covered in liquid polyester and being
sold as a work of art and we that's the cliffhanger we don't know what happened does he die does he
survive tintin is like uh like woody from toy story left on a cliffhanger we'll never know so do you
mean he was put in like a work of art like a damian hearst kind of thing yes that's the idea
knowing tintin as i as i do i would say he'd probably escape from that
yeah but his his god might have turned him against that right like herje was who knows
what he was going to do there we just don't know we don't know reese it's it it's interesting isn't
yeah i well uh it's interesting isn't it they these people that play also when you think of actors
that play these um characters that are so loved and they get sick of them as well i was just thinking
of harrison ford with han solo does he not like did he not like hans by the way he he said he'll
come back to star wars but he wanted the characters to die which is a spoiler but at least that's if
you haven't seen that one it came out a few years ago now um but and then the whole james bond dying
in that last bond that that daniel craig that's a bit more fresh that's a bit more fresh it reminds
me of uh that character anna karellina yeah i don't know if you okay it is time for our final
fact of the show and that is my fact my fact this week is that for over 50 years now the author of
a nearly complete history of the moose in new zealand has been looking for moose in new zealand
despite there being no moose in new zealand or is there oh yeah exactly or is there is there no
there isn't well there could be there is could there be all right well talk to us about why would
he not be looking is it quite a short book it sounds like there's not much to put in this book
right now if there are no moose in new zealand are you kidding me though there's plenty in this
book and it's not his only book he's written a bunch of books he's written a wild moose chase
he's this guy is a legend of new zealand yeah i knew you'd like that chance um this is a man called
ken tustin and he has been in the national parks in new zealand in fiordland looking for moose
because there was moose back in the 1920s 30s when they were introduced and there's your clincher
there was moose so that it's not like oh he's going to look for theories and i hope there's some
there you know there there was moose put there that'll be dead bad now those ones it's 100 years ago
it's a little thing called mating oh is that yeah go down to the sea get your toes wet
come and meet me on a wet cliff mate
wow oh blindfold you is that someone blowing no it's not it's just the wind all right get your
idea out show us your twerks here we go and mating say this is okay so um i i got the uh the decade
slightly wrong this was in 1910 and what it was is that new zealanders basically in 1910 wanted
something to hunt and they had no natural land mammals of that size and so moose were introduced
basically to rectify that so initially the moose really adapted well to the surroundings
but then red deer were introduced into the area and that changed the whole food change so much
that by 1952 so there was a good you know 40 odd years that they were around the moose population
really dwindled and then basically by 1930 disappeared altogether but then in 1952 one was
called on camera so there's 20 there's a 20 odd year period where people thought they were extinct
and then suddenly boom here is a moose and that is why this guy says there may be more moose because
moose are really good at hiding yes they are no they're really they're really hard to see they're
huge i know big amla's i know i know but this is a huge national park you know it's really hard to
spot one um a moose could be standing in a in a field 100 yards away and you won't see it
wow they do get they get hit by cars a lot don't they moose like that is a big problem in canada
and is that because of their this invisibility that they can switch up and off well that must be right
yeah because they they've got this mystical ability they can stand still for a long time
and one of their i think one of their look if you can just take this seriously
one of their um you know like a a security measure uh defense mechanisms there you go there's the
terms i knew you'd get there uh is to you know like um quite a lot of animals use that with a
just freeze like the goat thinking and it's always yeah well no that's a different one that's you
know but that well kind of but that's there that's a gene anomaly yeah i'm just trying to think of
some other animals that do it do the old freeze um a few bugs in headlights they would rabbit headlights
mules mules do that definitely i think when they're they just freeze when they can't deal with
situation i think so yeah like a possum something they would kind of pretend to be dead no i think
all the examples you've given so far are incorrect okay but there are some bugs and things out there
that will just i think okay here's one the stick insect because i saw it yesterday okay and a frozen
stick insect so the thing is i used to have pet stick insects as a child and they never moved
ever it wasn't that as soon as they were in danger they stopped moving they just stayed
there's defense mechanism they were scared of me yeah absolutely so i've had one i had one on my
steering wheel the other day this is back in new zealand when i was in the in the rural property
and i went to grab my steering wheel to to to drive as you do and there's a there's a sticky
on there and i went oh come on mate because of my hands need to be there he was in the two position
because you know you go for 11 and two it's the worst place and i went i grabbed the 11 and i always
grabbed the left first grabbed the 11 going for the two oh there's a sticky there and i says to him
come on mate and i and he just honestly i see him looking at me i'm on the right hand side of him
no prob's there but he's not moving and i come in slowly i'm cut and i even told him coming in with
the hand buddy coming in because you're on my two position and nothing just absolutely frozen so in
the end i just picked him up and he made out like he was a stick the whole time i've come to think of
it it might have been a poor poor stupid stick insect because i see what you're saying now you're
saying animals that are camouflage to their environment freeze but he's not a steering
wheel insect so it would be good if you could know as an animal that the thing you're sitting on
yeah it's not like but you look nothing like it yeah i mean chameleons they're the other ones
that lizards in general will will freeze or or really dart away but lizards are the ones that will
will freeze as a mechanism so let's go back to what what what was your fact in what are we talking
about moose we were talking about mooses right that's right and so hey this is pretty cool we
wrote a book years ago risa where there was a new zealand professor called neil gemel who had
gone to loch nests and he had used a new form called e dna to try and sample the waters of
loch nests to see if the monster may exist and so e dna seems like quite an obvious thing that you
would use in order to try and find the moose because you could go there and if the moose had
been let's say around a little stream or a pond and if it had been sipping from it in the last
21 days neil would be able to use this device to then take extracts out and say ah there's moose
dna in there that means they're alive yeah so i actually dm'd him on twitter and i asked him you
know is this is this a thing would you be up for doing it and he said it's so weird i actually
met ken i met this guy who's been looking for moose yeah and he met him when he went back to
loch nests to deliver the results of his findings about the water that he took from loch nests
and ken happened to be there on holiday and they met at loch nests to then discuss looking for the
moose actually i might seem like it's a massive coincidence but where is ken gonna holiday it's
obviously gonna be loch nests isn't it where are these two nutters that you've happened to have
heard of gonna see each other how day so is he gonna do it well he he talks about it so he said
what did he say he said ken and i've kept in touch and the plan was to jump on board with him
next time he found some sign of moose but there's been little found in the past few years still
remains a possibility we've surveyed quite large sections of yordland and do reasonably
broad biodiversity surveys setting baselines and looking for various things endangered birds some
species that are presumed to be extinct and of course moose so far there is no evidence of those
however there's been a hugely exciting thing for ken that happened in 2020 which is that a kid
well i say kid he's a teenager and when i say teenager he's in his 20s and he was on a flight
he was a guy called ben young who was in a helicopter flying over fjordland doing some
surveying and he saw a moose he saw the moose now here's the thing here's the thing he's a
canadian who used to work with moose there you go he knows what a moose looks like we all know
what a moose looks like no but canadians really know he was really no he was specifically a former
moose hunting guide in canada i still go listen james he would really know reese you're the one
who just told us a canadian could be standing a hundred feet from a moose on in a plain meadow
and not see it so there you go yeah normally but this guy was a trained moose yeah looker
wasn't he he's a trained moose looker yeah yeah it's i have to say it's not it obviously is not
the maddest idea they were there like you say it is a big place and um sometimes these things
come to fruition so there's another really great kiwi animal uh animal in new zealand
the tarkahey which i think are pretty rare i doubt have you seen tarkahey i think they're
quite rare aren't they reese yes they're they're rare nice nice looking very nice looking birds
though what kind of birds yeah they're the largest bird in like the rail family so like
coots and mohens but much bigger very beautiful blue green feathers huge red beak that goes all
the way up over their foreheads they can't fly but anyway we thought the tarkahey was extinct
by about 1900 so i think the first sighting by europeans was 1849 obviously the europeans
captured it roasted it ate it they sort of went quite quickly extinct and then there's a guy called
jeffrey orbell who when he was a kid his mum just showed him a picture of one i think in a childhood
book and he got a hunch as a child i bet that's still out there and he spent his life kind of
reading up on them and he was he was a doctor i think he was a an eye doctor so he was a legit
had a job um he knew how eyes worked so he'd be perfect for looking for things he knows how they
really work he could he could really see yeah yeah so he took his expert eyes out on this 1948
expedition and he they went up this mountain and you know these things haven't been seen for 50 years
and they sat by a little bit of water and two of them just walked straight into their nets
these lovely little birds waddled in and we discovered and now they have them i think they're
only about 300 they're very unusual but yeah they're very endangered yeah uh but look there you go i mean
that's just one example of how animals and don't forget you know the more intelligent they are they
know we're around they know that they're endangered there's only a small group of them and they hide
and they worry and they at their their survival instinct is their main feature and so they are
doing whatever it can take because otherwise they could be caught they could be shot we only think
it from a human capacity of how how would we hide how would we stay alive but we're nowhere near as
good as animals in the natural environment of the forest at staying alive yeah you're right a moose
that's that's ingrained in its system isn't it get away um just back to the fjordlands very quickly
i just want to give a quick shout out to a legend of the world of ornithology um he was part of the
ornithological society of new zealand joined in 1957 a guy called ron jack nilson who very sadly
passed away october 26 2022 um he was a legend of his field and he spent much like ken many many
years looking for an elusive supposedly extinct species of bird which are called the south island
coca-coco have you heard of that reese the south island coca-coco um oh yeah we found those this year
in november wasn't it yeah it was the first of november last year yeah when did he die
october 26 oh no oh that is so close yeah but no seriously what what what how do you spell
the bird name ko with a line above the k b o sorry k a ko so coca-coco and it's a bird that hasn't
been seen for many many years um people occasionally have supposed sightings but no one has properly
confirmed it no one has a photo and if anyone in new zealand in that region is listening there is at
least there was when this paper was written a ten thousand dollar reward for any photographic proof
of the south island coca-coco there's quite a lot of quite a lot of money to be made isn't there if
you can find these things that don't exist oh it's not the easiest way probably to put in a decent
sell a reliable salary if you tell your partner you know i'm gonna quit my job because i've heard
lots of money to be made you're nagging me too much i'm gonna get my books and i'm gonna go and
find the coca-coco okay i'll see you dinner the age old story okay that is it that is all of our facts
thank you so much for listening if you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things
that we have said over the course of this podcast we can all be found on our twitter accounts i'm on
at shriverland james at james harkin reese please don't contact me uh i think i did this last time
i haven't got time to read all your messages and anna uh you can either podcast at qi.com
yep or you can go to our group account which is at no such thing or our website no such thing as a
fish.com all of our previous episodes are there do check them out but most importantly go and watch
the entire series of our flag memes death reese's brilliant pirate sitcom the entire series is up
now to watch on the bbci player it's an absolutely awesome series um reese thank you so much for
being here and for the rest of you we'll be back again next week with another episode we'll see
you then goodbye